# CATLib and VoxLogicA tool chain for Spatial Synthesis

This repository groups experiments being performed about applying CATLib to spatial problems, e.g., synthesising a strategy 
enforcing spatial properties on a topological graph.

This software has been developed for to the publication "An Experimental Toolchain for Strategy Synthesis with Spatial Properties", by Davide Basile, Maurice H. ter Beek & Vincenzo Ciancia, published in the Proceeding of the 11th International Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, Verification and Validation,  Adaptation and Learning.  ISoLA 2022, Rhodes, Greece, October 22–30, 2022,  Part III, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-19759-8_10 


## STTT Special Issue ISOLA 2022 experiments

The latest release contains the jars for reproducing the experiments of STTT SI Isola 2022 (file maze-0.0.2-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar), along with a Python orchestrator named `CATLogicA.py`. 

For reproducing the experiments  described in our paper submitted to STTT Special Issue of ISOLA2022 follow the instructions below.

For reproducing the whole toolchain the file `CATLogica.py` is used. It suffices to clone the repository and run the command:

`python3.X ./CATLogicA.py -experiment N -specification filename.imgql -imagePath originalImage.png`

where `N` is the experiment id, `filename.imgql` is the specification and `originalImage.png` is the image to analyse. 

Then the commands to be run are:

`python3.X ./CATLogicA.py -experiment 1 -specification specification.imgql -imagePath maze.png`

`python3.X ./CATLogicA.py -experiment 2 -specification specification.imgql -imagePath maze.png`

`python3.X ./CATLogicA.py -experiment 3 -specification railwaySpecification.imgql -imagePath trainExample.png`

OpenJDK11 or a compatible version is required, python >3 is also required.


If you are interested in solely reproducing the part of the experiments related to CATLib, download the latest jar release, and launch it with:

`java -jar  maze-0.0.2-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar`

and follow the instructions. The executable class is located under `src/main/java/it/github/contractautomata/maze/twoagentsproblem/AppMazeTwoAgents_STTT_SI_ISOLA2022.java`. 
The resources are located inside the folder `/src/main/java/io/github/contractautomata/maze/twoagentsproblem/resources/`. 
The executable jar is equipped with an option to use the set-up of the experiments described in the paper.
OpenJDK11 or a compatible version is required.

## ISOLA 2022 experiments

The previous release contains the jar for reproducing  the experiments of Isola 2022 (file maze-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar). 
For reproducing the experiments of CATLib described in our paper accepted  at ISOLA2022, download the previous (May 2022) jar release, and launch it with:

`java -jar  maze-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar`

and follow the instructions. The executable class is located under `src/main/java/it/github/contractautomata/maze/twoagentsproblem/AppMazeTwoAgents_ISOLA2022.java`.
The release also contains the log of reproduction of the jar with the various options. 
OpenJDK11 or  a compatible version is required.


For running VoxLogicA, first copy the png images generated from the previous step into 

`src/test/java/io/github/contractautomata/maze/resources/twoagentsimages/png`

Then download VoxLogicA 1.0 from here: 

https://github.com/vincenzoml/VoxLogicA/releases/tag/v1.0-experimental 

and unzip it into `src/main/python/io.github.contractautomata.maze/VoxLogicA/binaries` (create the directory `VoxLogicA/binaries` if it does not exist). Then run the python script `src/main/python/io.github.contractautomata.maze/orchestrate.py` which generates a file called `cache.json`. A copy of this file is shipped in the root directory of the aforementioned jar file, with path `experiment2.json` and can be replaced. 



## Video demo
A video demo created using this repository is available at https://youtu.be/08_iok6R9sw.
Each frame of the video has been generated by executing the code in  AppVideoComposition.java
and by incrementing the bound of the call to the composition method. 

All frames are stored in the folder src/test/ ... /resources/video.


## Miscellanea

The JSONConverter for importing graphs of <a href="https://github.com/vincenzoml/VoxLogicA">VoxLogicA</a> encoding bitmap images has been moved into this repository.
A PngConverter is also available for directly importing png images as automata, by-passing the JSon representation.
